README.md, before:

# 🔒 MCP Secrets 🔓

*When MCP servers need credentials and you want a decent(ish?) option.*

<p align="center">
  <img src="artwork/screenshot.jpg" alt="Secrets UI" width="300"/>
</p>



## The Problem

MCP servers need API keys, passwords, and tokens. The obvious approaches are all terrible:

- **Environment variables**: Pollute your shell, leak in process lists
- **Config files**: Plain text secrets scattered everywhere 
- **Terminal input**: Visible in history, shoulder surfing paradise
- **Tell your LLM**: Because sending credentials to Anthropic/OpenAI/Alibaba/Whoever is brilliant
- **IDE temp cache**: Ephemeral and insecure
- **Hardcode them**: The nuclear option

MCP's elicitation feature sounds promising - direct input bypassing conversation logs. But the spec explicitly [warns](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-06-18/client/elicitation#security-considerations) against sensitive data because:

1. People screw up secrets management... like a lot
2. Opens doors to phishing attacks
   
    ...and evidenced by how many people set tool use to auto, that's not gonna get better
4. MCP utilities/IDEs might not be trustworthy
   
    ...actually they definitely are not - between the megacorps and the vibe coding projects bound to get hacked into oblivion, nope!


---
With all of this, what option are you left with if you want to give a bunch of neat tools to your models???

> How about using your system keychain like a sensible human?
---
<br/>


## The Solution

This framework stores secrets in platform-native secure storage (macOS Keychain, Windows Credential Manager, Linux libsecret) and presents an out-of-band native dialog when new credentials are needed.

### Key Features

- 🔐 **System keychain integration** - Actually secure storage
- 🖥️ **Native cross-platform dialogs** - No web UI nonsense  
- 🛡️ **Verification codes** - Anti-phishing protection...ish
- ⚡ **Async operation** - Doesn't block MCP flow
- 🔄 **Python + JavaScript** - Because ecosystems exist and generating the javascript one took like 2 minutes.
- 🎯 **FastMCP integration** - Works with modern MCP frameworks and should be compliant going forward.

## How It Works

1. **Missing secrets detected** → Framework checks system keychain
2. **Dialog spawned** → Native OS dialog appears with form fields  
3. **MCP elicitation triggered** → Keeps connection alive, shows verification code
4. **User fills dialog** → Matches verification code, submits credentials
5. **Secrets stored** → Committed to system keychain
6. **Done** → Never ask again (until cleared)

The verification code prevents random dialogs from phishing your credentials. Cross-reference the code between the MCP client and the dialog box.

## Architecture

### Core Components

```
MCPSecretsManager     → Main interface, manages server-scoped secrets
MCPSecretsStorage     → Platform keychain abstraction  
AsyncUIHandler        → Cross-platform dialog spawning
fetch_secrets()       → Orchestrates elicitation + dialog flow
secrets_dialog        → Rust native dialogs (macOS/Windows/Linux)
```

### Security Model

- **Keychain storage**: Platform-native secure credential stores
- **Server scoping**: Secrets isolated by MCP server name  
- **Verification codes**: Random 8-char codes prevent UI spoofing
- **Async operation**: Dialog runs independently of MCP connection
- **No plaintext**: Everything encrypted by OS credential manager

## Quick Start

### Python (FastMCP)

```python
from fastmcp import FastMCP, Context
from mcp_secrets import secrets_manager
from mcp_secrets.fetcher import fetch_secrets

# Define what secrets you need
SECRETS_INFO = {
    "api_key": {
        "label": "API Key",
        "field_type": "password", 
        "required": True,
        "help_text": "Your secret API key"
    }
}

mcp = FastMCP("My Server")
secrets_manager.initialize(mcp.name)

@mcp.tool
async def protected_action(ctx: Context) -> str:
    # Check if secrets exist
    if not secrets_manager.ensure_secrets(["api_key"]):
        # Elicit from user if missing
        success, message = await fetch_secrets(ctx, SECRETS_INFO)
        if not success:
            raise ToolError(message)
    
    # Use the secret
    api_key = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret("api_key")
    return f"Using key: {api_key[:8]}..."
```

### JavaScript (FastMCP)

```typescript
import { FastMCP } from 'fastmcp';
import { secrets_manager, fetch_secrets } from './mcp-secrets';

const SECRETS_INFO = {
  api_key: {
    label: 'API Key',
    field_type: 'password',
    required: true,
    help_text: 'Your secret API key'
  }
};

const server = new FastMCP({ name: 'My Server' });
secrets_manager.initialize('My Server');

server.addTool({
  name: 'protected_action',
  execute: async (args, { log }) => {
    if (!secrets_manager.ensure_secrets(['api_key'])) {
      const [success, message] = await fetch_secrets(context, SECRETS_INFO);
      if (!success) throw new Error(message);
    }
    
    const apiKey = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret('api_key');
    return `Using key: ${apiKey?.substring(0, 8)}...`;
  }
});
```

## Installation

### Python

```bash
# Copy the mcp_secrets package to your project
cp -r example_python/mcp_secrets /your/project/
pip install fastmcp keyring
```

### JavaScript

```bash
npm install fastmcp @napi-rs/keyring zod
# Copy src/ directory to your project
```

### Dialog Binaries

The Rust dialog binaries are pre-compiled for all platforms:

```
secrets_dialog/dialog_bin/
├── macos_dialog      # Native Cocoa
├── windows_dialog.exe # Native Win32  
└── linux_dialog      # GTK3
```

## Usage Patterns

### Basic Secret Management

```python
# Initialize for your server
secrets_manager.initialize("my-mcp-server")

# Store secrets programmatically
secrets_manager.store_secret("token", "abc123")

# Retrieve secrets
value = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret("token")

# List stored secrets
names = secrets_manager.list_secrets()

# Clear everything
secrets_manager.clear_secrets()
```

### Interactive Elicitation

```python
# Define the secrets you need
SECRETS_CONFIG = {
    "username": {
        "label": "Username",
        "field_type": "text",
        "required": True,
        "help_text": "Your account username"
    },
    "password": {
        "label": "Password", 
        "field_type": "password",
        "required": True,
        "help_text": "Your account password"
    },
    "endpoint": {
        "label": "API Endpoint",
        "field_type": "url", 
        "default": "https://api.example.com",
        "required": False,
        "help_text": "Custom API endpoint URL"
    }
}

# In your MCP tool
@mcp.tool
async def login_required_action(ctx: Context) -> str:
    needed = ["username", "password", "endpoint"]
    
    if not secrets_manager.ensure_secrets(needed):
        success, msg = await fetch_secrets(ctx, SECRETS_CONFIG)
        if not success:
            raise ToolError(f"Authentication failed: {msg}")
    
    # Now use your secrets safely
    username = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret("username")
    password = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret("password") 
    endpoint = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret("endpoint")
    
    return authenticate_with_service(username, password, endpoint)
```

### Environment-Based Clearing

```bash
# Clear all secrets on startup
export SECRETS_STORAGE_CLEAR=true
```

## Dialog Field Types

| Type | Description | Input Style |
|------|-------------|-------------|
| `text` | Plain text input | Single line text box |
| `password` | Hidden password input | Masked input field |
| `url` | URL validation | Text with URL validation |
| `email` | Email validation | Text with email validation |

## Platform Support

| Platform | Storage | Dialog | Status |
|----------|---------|--------|--------|
| **macOS** | Keychain | Native Cocoa | ✅ Tested |
| **Windows** | Credential Manager | Native Win32 | ✅ Tested |  
| **Linux** | libsecret | GTK3 | ✅ Tested |

## Security Considerations

- **Keychain isolation**: Each MCP server gets its own credential namespace
- **Verification codes**: 8-character random codes prevent dialog spoofing
- **Process isolation**: Dialog runs as separate process, not in MCP server
- **No network**: All operations are local to your machine
- **Platform security**: Relies on OS-level credential protection

## Development

### Building Dialog Binaries

```bash
cd secrets_dialog
./compile.sh  # Builds for current platform
```

### Testing

```bash
# Python
cd example_python
python test_binary.py

# JavaScript  
cd example_javascript
npm test
```

## FAQ

**Q: Why not just use environment variables?**
A: Because they leak in process lists, shells, and logs. System keychains are designed for this.

**Q: What about Docker/containers?**
A: This is for local development. Use proper secrets management in production.

**Q: Why the verification codes?**
A: Prevents malicious software from creating fake dialogs to steal your credentials.

**Q: Does this work with Claude Desktop?**
A: Yes, it works with any MCP client that supports elicitation.

**Q: Can I customize the dialog appearance?**
A: Set `MCP_SECRETS_UI_BINARY` to point to your own dialog binary.

## TODO

### SecretsManager Enhancement - User-Controlled Secret Confirmation

Add a secrets option to always prompt when a certain secret is being used.

**Implementation Concept:**
- Opt-in feature controlled by a flag
- Always ask user to confirm via elictation before proceeding with secret use
- Two confirmation modes:
  - **First-run caching**: Ask once when MCP server starts, cache the decision
  - **Every-time**: Ask for confirmation on every secret access

**User Control Benefits:**
- Puts user in driver's seat for sensitive secret usage
- If user denies access, operation fails gracefully
- Optional behavior - users who don't care can let secrets be used automatically
- Enhanced security for paranoid users who want explicit control

**Technical Notes:**
- Flag-based activation in the template (e.g., `confirm_secrets_use=never,first,always`)
- Cache confirmation state per server session or globally

## License

MIT. Use it, break it, fix it, whatever. Just don't blame me when your secrets get compromised because you YOLO'd.

## Related

- [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) - Fun Stuff
- [FastMCP](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp) - Python MCP framework - The Good Edition
- [FastMCP](https://github.com/punkpeye/fastmcp) - JavaScript MCP framework

Commit message:

Clarify secrets option for user confirmation
Updated the description of the secrets option to clarify its functionality.

README.md, after:

# 🔒 MCP Secrets 🔓

*When MCP servers need credentials and you want a decent(ish?) option.*

<p align="center">
  <img src="artwork/screenshot.jpg" alt="Secrets UI" width="300"/>
</p>



## The Problem

MCP servers need API keys, passwords, and tokens. The obvious approaches are all terrible:

- **Environment variables**: Pollute your shell, leak in process lists
- **Config files**: Plain text secrets scattered everywhere 
- **Terminal input**: Visible in history, shoulder surfing paradise
- **Tell your LLM**: Because sending credentials to Anthropic/OpenAI/Alibaba/Whoever is brilliant
- **IDE temp cache**: Ephemeral and insecure
- **Hardcode them**: The nuclear option

MCP's elicitation feature sounds promising - direct input bypassing conversation logs. But the spec explicitly [warns](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/specification/2025-06-18/client/elicitation#security-considerations) against sensitive data because:

1. People screw up secrets management... like a lot
2. Opens doors to phishing attacks
   
    ...and evidenced by how many people set tool use to auto, that's not gonna get better
4. MCP utilities/IDEs might not be trustworthy
   
    ...actually they definitely are not - between the megacorps and the vibe coding projects bound to get hacked into oblivion, nope!


---
With all of this, what option are you left with if you want to give a bunch of neat tools to your models???

> How about using your system keychain like a sensible human?
---
<br/>


## The Solution

This framework stores secrets in platform-native secure storage (macOS Keychain, Windows Credential Manager, Linux libsecret) and presents an out-of-band native dialog when new credentials are needed.

### Key Features

- 🔐 **System keychain integration** - Actually secure storage
- 🖥️ **Native cross-platform dialogs** - No web UI nonsense  
- 🛡️ **Verification codes** - Anti-phishing protection...ish
- ⚡ **Async operation** - Doesn't block MCP flow
- 🔄 **Python + JavaScript** - Because ecosystems exist and generating the javascript one took like 2 minutes.
- 🎯 **FastMCP integration** - Works with modern MCP frameworks and should be compliant going forward.

## How It Works

1. **Missing secrets detected** → Framework checks system keychain
2. **Dialog spawned** → Native OS dialog appears with form fields  
3. **MCP elicitation triggered** → Keeps connection alive, shows verification code
4. **User fills dialog** → Matches verification code, submits credentials
5. **Secrets stored** → Committed to system keychain
6. **Done** → Never ask again (until cleared)

The verification code prevents random dialogs from phishing your credentials. Cross-reference the code between the MCP client and the dialog box.

## Architecture

### Core Components

```
MCPSecretsManager     → Main interface, manages server-scoped secrets
MCPSecretsStorage     → Platform keychain abstraction  
AsyncUIHandler        → Cross-platform dialog spawning
fetch_secrets()       → Orchestrates elicitation + dialog flow
secrets_dialog        → Rust native dialogs (macOS/Windows/Linux)
```

### Security Model

- **Keychain storage**: Platform-native secure credential stores
- **Server scoping**: Secrets isolated by MCP server name  
- **Verification codes**: Random 8-char codes prevent UI spoofing
- **Async operation**: Dialog runs independently of MCP connection
- **No plaintext**: Everything encrypted by OS credential manager

## Quick Start

### Python (FastMCP)

```python
from fastmcp import FastMCP, Context
from mcp_secrets import secrets_manager
from mcp_secrets.fetcher import fetch_secrets

# Define what secrets you need
SECRETS_INFO = {
    "api_key": {
        "label": "API Key",
        "field_type": "password", 
        "required": True,
        "help_text": "Your secret API key"
    }
}

mcp = FastMCP("My Server")
secrets_manager.initialize(mcp.name)

@mcp.tool
async def protected_action(ctx: Context) -> str:
    # Check if secrets exist
    if not secrets_manager.ensure_secrets(["api_key"]):
        # Elicit from user if missing
        success, message = await fetch_secrets(ctx, SECRETS_INFO)
        if not success:
            raise ToolError(message)
    
    # Use the secret
    api_key = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret("api_key")
    return f"Using key: {api_key[:8]}..."
```

### JavaScript (FastMCP)

```typescript
import { FastMCP } from 'fastmcp';
import { secrets_manager, fetch_secrets } from './mcp-secrets';

const SECRETS_INFO = {
  api_key: {
    label: 'API Key',
    field_type: 'password',
    required: true,
    help_text: 'Your secret API key'
  }
};

const server = new FastMCP({ name: 'My Server' });
secrets_manager.initialize('My Server');

server.addTool({
  name: 'protected_action',
  execute: async (args, { log }) => {
    if (!secrets_manager.ensure_secrets(['api_key'])) {
      const [success, message] = await fetch_secrets(context, SECRETS_INFO);
      if (!success) throw new Error(message);
    }
    
    const apiKey = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret('api_key');
    return `Using key: ${apiKey?.substring(0, 8)}...`;
  }
});
```

## Installation

### Python

```bash
# Copy the mcp_secrets package to your project
cp -r example_python/mcp_secrets /your/project/
pip install fastmcp keyring
```

### JavaScript

```bash
npm install fastmcp @napi-rs/keyring zod
# Copy src/ directory to your project
```

### Dialog Binaries

The Rust dialog binaries are pre-compiled for all platforms:

```
secrets_dialog/dialog_bin/
├── macos_dialog      # Native Cocoa
├── windows_dialog.exe # Native Win32  
└── linux_dialog      # GTK3
```

## Usage Patterns

### Basic Secret Management

```python
# Initialize for your server
secrets_manager.initialize("my-mcp-server")

# Store secrets programmatically
secrets_manager.store_secret("token", "abc123")

# Retrieve secrets
value = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret("token")

# List stored secrets
names = secrets_manager.list_secrets()

# Clear everything
secrets_manager.clear_secrets()
```

### Interactive Elicitation

```python
# Define the secrets you need
SECRETS_CONFIG = {
    "username": {
        "label": "Username",
        "field_type": "text",
        "required": True,
        "help_text": "Your account username"
    },
    "password": {
        "label": "Password", 
        "field_type": "password",
        "required": True,
        "help_text": "Your account password"
    },
    "endpoint": {
        "label": "API Endpoint",
        "field_type": "url", 
        "default": "https://api.example.com",
        "required": False,
        "help_text": "Custom API endpoint URL"
    }
}

# In your MCP tool
@mcp.tool
async def login_required_action(ctx: Context) -> str:
    needed = ["username", "password", "endpoint"]
    
    if not secrets_manager.ensure_secrets(needed):
        success, msg = await fetch_secrets(ctx, SECRETS_CONFIG)
        if not success:
            raise ToolError(f"Authentication failed: {msg}")
    
    # Now use your secrets safely
    username = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret("username")
    password = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret("password") 
    endpoint = secrets_manager.retrieve_secret("endpoint")
    
    return authenticate_with_service(username, password, endpoint)
```

### Environment-Based Clearing

```bash
# Clear all secrets on startup
export SECRETS_STORAGE_CLEAR=true
```

## Dialog Field Types

| Type | Description | Input Style |
|------|-------------|-------------|
| `text` | Plain text input | Single line text box |
| `password` | Hidden password input | Masked input field |
| `url` | URL validation | Text with URL validation |
| `email` | Email validation | Text with email validation |

## Platform Support

| Platform | Storage | Dialog | Status |
|----------|---------|--------|--------|
| **macOS** | Keychain | Native Cocoa | ✅ Tested |
| **Windows** | Credential Manager | Native Win32 | ✅ Tested |  
| **Linux** | libsecret | GTK3 | ✅ Tested |

## Security Considerations

- **Keychain isolation**: Each MCP server gets its own credential namespace
- **Verification codes**: 8-character random codes prevent dialog spoofing
- **Process isolation**: Dialog runs as separate process, not in MCP server
- **No network**: All operations are local to your machine
- **Platform security**: Relies on OS-level credential protection

## Development

### Building Dialog Binaries

```bash
cd secrets_dialog
./compile.sh  # Builds for current platform
```

### Testing

```bash
# Python
cd example_python
python test_binary.py

# JavaScript  
cd example_javascript
npm test
```

## FAQ

**Q: Why not just use environment variables?**
A: Because they leak in process lists, shells, and logs. System keychains are designed for this.

**Q: What about Docker/containers?**
A: This is for local development. Use proper secrets management in production.

**Q: Why the verification codes?**
A: Prevents malicious software from creating fake dialogs to steal your credentials.

**Q: Does this work with Claude Desktop?**
A: Yes, it works with any MCP client that supports elicitation.

**Q: Can I customize the dialog appearance?**
A: Set `MCP_SECRETS_UI_BINARY` to point to your own dialog binary.

## TODO

### SecretsManager Enhancement - User-Controlled Secret Confirmation

Add a secrets flag to support confirmation when a secret is used at varying levels.

**Implementation Concept:**
- Opt-in feature controlled by a flag
- Always ask user to confirm via elictation before proceeding with secret use
- Two confirmation modes:
  - **First-run caching**: Ask once when MCP server starts, cache the decision
  - **Every-time**: Ask for confirmation on every secret access

**User Control Benefits:**
- Puts user in driver's seat for sensitive secret usage
- If user denies access, operation fails gracefully
- Optional behavior - users who don't care can let secrets be used automatically
- Enhanced security for paranoid users who want explicit control

**Technical Notes:**
- Flag-based activation in the template (e.g., `confirm_secrets_use=never,first,always`)
- Cache confirmation state per server session or globally

## License

MIT. Use it, break it, fix it, whatever. Just don't blame me when your secrets get compromised because you YOLO'd.

## Related

- [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/) - Fun Stuff
- [FastMCP](https://github.com/jlowin/fastmcp) - Python MCP framework - The Good Edition
- [FastMCP](https://github.com/punkpeye/fastmcp) - JavaScript MCP framework
